[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: What is my purpose?
This is the most asked question
of my radio show callers
who are trying to make
sense of why we are here.
This question is also what
started best-selling author
of the "Way of the
Peaceful Warrior"
on his journey that
impacted millions.
Dan Millman, former
world champion gymnast
and college professor,
he's the author
of 17 books published
in 29 languages
and shared across generations
to millions of readers.
His internationally
best-selling book
"Way of the Peaceful Warrior"
was adapted to film in 2006.
Welcome.
>>DAN MILLMAN: Hi, Lisa.
>>LISA: So great
to have you here.
>>MILLMAN: Great to be here.
>>LISA: So tell me.
Well, first of all, your book.
And I read it.
And I loved it.
And it's impacted so
many people's lives.
I'm sure you hear this
all the time, right?
>>MILLMAN: I hear
it often enough.
It's very gratifying.
Sure.
>>LISA: Yes.
Did you start off--
did just tell us
a little bit about the story.
Were you really looking
for purpose in your life?
>>MILLMAN: Yes, but in
the same way everybody is.
I think we're
hard-wired goal seekers.
I watched my grandchildren
when they were little,
crawling across the floor.
They wanted something.
So like anybody, I was trying
to find out how I fit here
and what I could
do with my life.
And so that started me
contemplating and wondering,
looking at life
through that lens.
What is my purpose here?
And that developed into
much of what I've written.
>>LISA: So it was preceded,
though, by an accident.
We have this change in life.
There's something that
interrupts our life.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: And we see it as
a catastrophe at the time.
And you were seeking, right?
>>MILLMAN: Well, we hear
the word disruption a lot
in business, and
politics, and technology.
And so when I shattered my
right leg in a motorcycle crash
at the peak of my career,
I was heading for the--
toward the Olympics.
It did disrupt my life.
And I began to ask
bigger questions then.
I became more
interested in, what's
the bigger picture of life?
So that's when I shifted
from being a young athlete
and coach looking for how we
create more talent for sports
to, how can we create more
talent or skill sets for life?
So daily life became the arena.
And that question sent
me around the world,
working with various
mentors, including
the old man I called Socrates.
And it developed
into an approach
to living over several decades.
>>LISA: Were you ever
told, though, you're never
going to walk again or perform
again the way that you were?
I mean, you've got the
naysayers on top of you,
trying to find the purpose
with the catastrophic event.
This is a perfect storm, always.
>>MILLMAN: Sure, sure.
Well, sometimes the biggest
naysayers are internal.
>>LISA: Isn't that the truth?
>>MILLMAN: Nick Nolte
in the movie version
said, I call myself
a peaceful warrior,
because the real battles
are inside of us.
And if we can overcome our
battles with self-doubt,
insecurity, fear, and so
on, then the challenges
of everyday life become less.
We're able to
tackle them better.
So that's what I mean
by the term warrior.
>>LISA: Sometimes, though, those
naysayers are what we focus on,
though.
We focus on that
person saying, well,
you never perform
the way you used to.
Did you get that line?
>>MILLMAN: Well, expectations,
including my own--
I didn't really have any.
I just said let's
see what happens.
But I began doing push-ups
before I left the hospital.
Even with a shattered leg--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MILLMAN: --they
did a major surgery.
And I just went to the beach
and started doing strength
and said let's see what happens.
So I think this
let's see approach.
Doing my best was really a key.
That's why I never recommend to
people they strive for success.
That's not in our control.
In fact, we can control our
efforts, but not the outcomes.
But by making a good
effort over time,
we increase the odds of
getting the desired result.
So that was the approach I took.
That's why I recommend
people strive for excellence,
which is what I did.
And I kept striving.
And the story is a
comeback story, of course.
And it was successful
in its way.
>>LISA: You strove for
excellence, but not perfection.
Right.
My husband is a major
athlete, a state champion.
He just broke his ankle.
And he's going through
this lack of identity,
because he was so
identified there.
>>MILLMAN: I
emphasize to people,
don't say I am a
musician, I am an athlete.
Because that becomes
our identity.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: And if we lose that--
and everyone does eventually--
then we say, who am I?
But if we say, I do music,
I do sports, I do medicine,
then that's not who we are.
It's just something we do.
And we do it as best we can, so
people don't have that identity
crisis as much.
>>LISA: Yeah, it's definitely--
because an athlete really
is all consuming.
You're physical.
It's mentally straining.
>>MILLMAN: Emotional.
>>LISA: Emotional.
And you have goals.
And it really is an
all-involving thing.
And it also lifted him so much.
So to be grounded is
tough, and I understand.
So at this point in your
life, what do you do?
What is your purpose now?
>>MILLMAN: Well, my purpose
now is sharing with you
and enjoying our
conversation, which I am.
So I tend to focus more on
the purpose in the moment.
Now, if someone says,
what's your cosmic purpose?
That's sometimes
tough to get your--
a grip on.
But if someone says,
what is your purpose now?
Most people know what their
purpose is in that moment.
>>LISA: Right.
This moment.
>>MILLMAN: In my little book,
"The Four Purposes of Life,"
that's the fourth purpose.
And it may be the most
important for all of us.
What is my purpose here and now?
And that we can--
we usually know.
And we can focus on that.
And it creates more
quality moments.
And the quality of our
moments, of course,
become the quality of our life.
>>LISA: Now, this book, "Way
of the Peaceful Warrior"
started this.
Did you ever plan it being
an international success
when you wrote it?
>>MILLMAN: Well, my life
is much more closely
resembling improvisational
comedy to strategic planning.
[LAUGHTER]
>>LISA: A combination of both?
>>MILLMAN: I just
shared something
that was meaningful to me, based
on my previous life experience.
And I thought maybe a few
college students would like it.
I really couldn't have
predicted the impact
it had over the decades,
really, and continues to have.
I say that without hubris.
It just still
surprises me, but there
must have been something
that caught lightning.
>>LISA: It really was one
of the first books that
described the hero's journey
in a metaphorical way.
It happened to have been the
autobiography of your life,
but done in such
a wonderful way.
I mean, have you
heard from people
over the years, why it made
such a big impact 25 years ago?
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
I asked people, because
they would repeat
the same thing over
and over-- this book
changed my life in some way.
And I wanted to say, why?
How?
And I think what it did was
it helped expand perspectives
about our promise
and possibilities.
I think it offered reminders
that people tend to know
deep down, but we forget.
So that's what I do today.
I offer reminders and
perspectives with people.
>>LISA: Now, you speak to
corporations and everyone.
And this theme is
around purpose?
Is that what you
speak about now?
>>MILLMAN: Well, that's one of
the major themes in my work.
People say, what do you
mean, peaceful warrior?
What is that about?
And it's really about all of us.
This is not so much
about me as us.
We're all in this together.
It's about living
with a peaceful heart.
We're all striving to do that.
But it's also
recognizing the times
we need a warrior spirit to
really face what we need to
in the arena of daily life.
So that's really what
I wanted to share.
And it's an approach to living.
It includes life skills
like learning to live
in the present moment and why.
What does that really mean?
And also, living
a purposeful life.
And several of my books deal
with that central question of,
what are we here to do?
And what are we doing here?
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
As I mentioned, that's one
of the biggest questions
from callers.
So how do you get
to that answer?
What is purpose?
>>MILLMAN: Well,
that was something
that was unfocused in my life.
And I met various mentors.
I didn't write another book
after "Way of the Peaceful
Warrior" for 10 years.
I felt I'd said
what I had to say.
Then other mentors
entered my life.
And I was so excited--
this radically new
cutting-edge information.
So that stimulated "Sacred
Journey of the Peaceful
Warrior," the second book I
wrote 10 years later, and then
"No Ordinary Moments," and
a number of other books--
17 that eventually followed.
I've never written a book just
to have another book out there.
It has to justify itself.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: So there are
many facets of this way.
One of my mentors--
I call him the warrior priest--
had an uncannily accurate system
for deriving one's life path--
clarifying, crystallizing,
illuminating the core
issues of our life, and some
hurdles we're here to overcome,
and the strengths we have.
And he gave a series of
lectures, and I attended.
And I began to teach
friends, relatives anything,
doing readings for them,
kind of consultations.
And over the years, I finally--
after eight years,
I decided it was
time to write a book
with the material.
And that became a
book called "The Life
You Were Born to Live."
>>LISA: Which is really cool.
So that gets you
to life purpose--
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: --through a
series of calculations
using your birth
date and so forth.
And there's a whole
Life Purpose Calculator
on your website, which I love.
It's the Way of the Peaceful
Warrior website, right?
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: And then you can
calculate your life purpose.
And has it really proved to
be accurate for people that
go on there and check it out?
>>MILLMAN: Well, of
course, no author
is going to say, no, not really.
But, yes, it has some
uncanny accuracy.
I don't understand it, how
deriving from your birth date--
I mean, astrologers do things
with that, and the time
of your birth, and so on.
This is very accessible.
I've studied all the systems of
self-analysis, self-knowledge.
Very important.
The Oracle at Delphi--
over the gates, they
had "Know thyself."
It's ancient wisdom.
And every religious
and spiritual tradition
says know yourself.
Because if we don't
know ourself--
if we're looking at a kind
of illusion we've developed,
then we make the right
decisions for the wrong person,
the one we thought we were.
So "The Life You
Were Born to Live"
is to help people really
know themselves to the bone
and make wiser decisions
for who they truly
are and have more
compassion for themselves
and others in their lives.
Because you can also look
up loved ones, friends,
and understand the path they're
taking up that mountain.
>>LISA: So would you consider
yourself an introvert?
>>MILLMAN: I'd have
to say it varies.
There are times I go into very
introverted, introspective
times, working on new books.
And I need time to
recharge on my own.
But other times, I'm very
gregarious and outgoing,
so I think there's
a mixture there.
>>LISA: So you take
this personality type
that you just explained about
yourself and the introvert
and at times being gregarious.
And you fit that into,
how do I show up?
How do I show up in life?
What do I do with
these personalities?
How do I achieve
anything in my life?
It becomes confusing,
doesn't it?
>>MILLMAN: Well, it certainly
can, especially when
we project into the future.
But if we say, how do I
show up right now and strive
to be as authentic as we can?
Like what you see
is what you get.
I'm not different
with other people
or in other circumstances.
So I have developed
a sense of who I am.
Authenticity has always
been very important to me.
>>LISA: Yeah, you can tell.
Yeah.
And the way that you write--
I love that you say
you write a book,
because it's got to have
a meaning in your life.
It's got to come
from an experience.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: And you take your time
to do something like that.
And it really gets
to the next place.
So at what point did "Way
of the Peaceful Warrior"
get adapted to a film?
Tell us that story.
>>MILLMAN: Well,
first I got called
from Robert Downey, Jr. He
said, you want to have dinner?
I'm in San Francisco,
and we're making a film.
He was just starting
out in his career.
He said, I'd like to play
your role in the movie.
And I flew to Columbia.
And oddly enough, there's a
longer story I won't go into,
but I said no.
I know it sounds a little
crazy right now in retrospect.
Then somebody-- another
company offered to do the film.
And I said I declined.
And then there was this
really good-hearted guy
who was an aspiring producer who
said, I'd like to do your film.
And for various
reasons, I said yes.
And it only took him 18 years
to finally have a company.
Sobini Films produced the film.
And it was distributed by
Lionsgate, then Universal.
So, yeah.
It took-- from the time the
book was first published,
well over 20 years
to create the film.
>>LISA: Was it important
for you to create it?
Or you wanted it done right?
>>MILLMAN: Well, I don't
know what done right is.
A movie is a meal for
consciousness in two hours.
So movies can rarely
capture what's
in the book of the internal
life of the character
and yet, I was honored that they
were willing to spend the money
to adapt my work to film.
And it was an exciting time.
>>LISA: Were you a part of the
process in choosing Nick Nolte?
>>MILLMAN: No, no.
I sold the rights.
And I was a
cheerleader-- that's it--
to the project,
wishing them well
and letting the
professionals do their thing.
I did contribute some
scenes at the last minute--
a couple of lines
in some scenes.
But I wasn't the screenwriter.
I was just supportive
of the project.
And I think it reaches a
new and different audience.
It's become sort of a cult film.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Yeah, it's great.
>>MILLMAN: And many
people then read the book,
which is all to the good.
>>LISA: Right.
Let's actually take
a look of the trailer
of the movie, the way of
the "Peaceful Warrior."
>> I call myself a
peaceful warrior,
because the battles we
fight are on the inside.
This moment is the only
thing that matters.
>>LISA: Socrates.
Socrates.
Who?
How did you find the Socrates?
Did you just have to
be a seeker, really?
>>MILLMAN: There's a saying.
Many people have heard that
when the student is ready,
the teacher appears.
And many people
imagine that to mean
when I'm deserving enough
or prepared enough,
a teacher will appear
like Socrates in my life
and guide me up the path.
But I believe what it
means-- when the student is
ready or actually
paying attention,
the teacher appears everywhere.
So Socrates-- for me,
I was coming off--
I read the Carlos
Castaneda books.
But I wanted to show that you
could find a teacher anywhere.
And I remembered
a cosmic fellow I
had met who wouldn't
tell me his real name,
but he reminded me
of the Greek sage,
so I started calling
him Socrates.
And he represented the
archetypal teacher.
Frodo had Gandalf in
"Lord of the Rings,"
and Arthur had Merlin.
Danielson had Mr. Miyagi
in the "Karate Kid."
So this archetypal
student-teacher relationship
is one way to convey ideas.
And it was all intuitive.
But I said, I think
I'll share these lessons
I learned over the years.
Because I wrote the book 14
years after I met Socrates.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>MILLMAN: So it was
all my life experience.
Maybe my own higher self
as well contributed somehow
to what went down in the book.
>>LISA: Have you always
wanted to be an author?
>>MILLMAN: Oh, not at all.
>>LISA: Not at all, huh?
>>MILLMAN: Yeah.
A 10-page paper in
college was intimidating.
Like most of us, how am I
going to write 10 pages?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: But it happened
over a process with time.
I've always seen myself--
I love to teach, so I taught
gymnastics-- what I knew.
But later it segued over
to something bigger.
When my interests
expanded into daily life,
I started looking for things
that could really help people.
>>LISA: You expanded,
too, and as a coach,
which we talked a little bit
about this on my radio show,
that a coach really
is an earned title.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Randomly, people
call themselves coaches.
And then they have a lot of
influence over young people.
And that comes with a certain
amount of credibility,
and honor, and authenticity.
Somebody really
needs to understand
what that word means.
What does being a
coach mean to you?
>>MILLMAN: The word
supportive comes to me.
A coach is there to support
you and your process.
One of the central tenets of
"The Peaceful Warrior's Way"
is that there is no best book,
teacher, religion, path, diet,
exercise system.
There's only the
best for each of us
at a given time of our lives.
Life is an experiment.
So I have a profound respect
for each person's process.
So as a coach, I
look to that person.
I'm there to support them.
I often remind people.
I'm not here for
people to trust me.
I'm here to help people
trust themselves.
And so to me, that's
what a coach is.
And I began coaching
in gymnastics.
A coach has to address
someone's mind, emotions, body,
whereas maybe a teacher in
college-- it's more academic.
They just do the lectures.
And the student goes and
reads the books and studies.
So we have a much more
intimate and deep connection
with people.
I think a good psychotherapist
is a coach as well.
So it's more than
a word or title
someone uses like, I'm a life
coach, which is terrific.
It's great to have a
lot of people around.
And we can coach each other.
I mean--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: --we're all
students and teachers.
>>LISA: Friends and so forth.
>>MILLMAN: Sure.
>>LISA: You said to me once
that life is about the journey,
but it's also about
the destination.
>>MILLMAN: Well, in the
"Peaceful Warrior" movie,
the character Dan
has a revelation,
that it's the journey
that makes us happy,
not just reaching the
destination, which
is a wise idea.
But without a destination in
mind, there is no journey.
We just wander around.
So from our point A, we
need to pick a point B,
whether it's for the day,
for the minute, for the hour,
something we're moving toward.
To me, success is
making progress
toward a goal that's
meaningful to us.
That's really a meaningful
way to define success.
>>LISA: Yes, it is.
And if the goal changes--
>>MILLMAN: We move in
a different direction.
>>LISA: But we enjoy
the journey and the way.
>>MILLMAN: Sure.
>>LISA: The path.
>>MILLMAN: Most of
it's the journey.
>>LISA: Right-- which is always
filled with bumps, and rocks,
and routes, and obstacles.
>>MILLMAN: Yes, spiritual--
>>LISA: Training points.
>>MILLMAN: --weightlifting.
Many times we volunteer
for adversity,
because we intuit the value.
Sometimes I ask audiences.
Please raise your hand
if you've experienced
physical, emotional, or
mental pain in your life.
Everybody raises their hand.
And yet, because of that
pain, that challenge,
that difficulty, we're
a little bit stronger,
a little bit wiser, and maybe
even have a bigger perspective
about life.
So we don't have to
pretend to like adversity.
But when a challenge happens,
we roll up our sleeves.
And we know we're going
to get stronger and wiser
from doing it.
>>LISA: If we could
just remember that--
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: --and not go back
into those old patterns.
>>MILLMAN: Right.
Why me?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: Why is this--
not the victim, but why
is it happening to me?
But, all right.
Time to roll up my sleeves.
I've done it before.
I can do it again.
>>LISA: If we can remember that.
>>MILLMAN: Yes, exactly.
>>LISA: The book,
"The Four Purposes--"
you mentioned the fourth.
What are the first three?
>>MILLMAN: Well, the first
purpose is something we all
share--
learning life's lessons.
>>LISA: And we just
talked about that.
Yeah.
>>MILLMAN: Yeah.
And many people go,
well, I know that.
Of course, we learn
from our experience.
But it's more about the idea
that Earth is a divine school.
And daily life is our classroom.
Daily life is
guaranteed to teach us
everything we need
to learn in order
to evolve as human beings--
>>LISA: Guaranteed, isn't it?
>>MILLMAN: --to really
appreciate the challenges.
A man wrote to me once and
said, Dan, I read your book.
And now, I want to do
more spiritual practice,
but I'm married.
I have three children.
I'm married, full-time job.
He came to understand
his work, his family
were his spiritual practices.
And they develop us.
They demand more and develop
us more than sitting in a cave
and meditating.
>>LISA: Completely.
>>MILLMAN: I know
because I've done both.
>>LISA: Yes, that's
a great point where
you get-- leave work and then
you go do your yoga class
or you do your
spiritual practice.
Well, what if you can bring
those principles of balance--
>>MILLMAN: Yeah, everything.
Yeah.
>>LISA: --into work and of being
the observer into situations?
All those great
spiritual practices
in real daily life, I
think, is the real school--
>>MILLMAN: It is.
That's from my view.
>>LISA: --into the life school.
OK.
And then the second purpose?
>>MILLMAN: The second
purpose is what we normally
think of our purpose.
What is my career?
What is my calling?
Sometimes they're the same
thing in your case, in mine.
But for many people,
they have a career.
It's appropriate.
The primary purpose of a
career is to make an income.
We may like our career.
We may have people we
like, we work with.
But if we weren't
making any money,
we'd have to find
something else.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: It's to support
ourselves and our family,
whereas a calling is
something we would do,
even if we weren't paid for it.
It's in our discretionary time.
Could be a hobby or
something we're moved to do.
And sometimes they become
the same, and they meld.
Other times they're separate.
But that's the second purpose
is getting more clarity.
And in several of my books,
I give specific methods
to become more clear on what's
the most appropriate work.
Because we can make
good money doing what
we enjoy or find suitable
while serving other people.
>>LISA: Well, you hear
that a lot, though,
is that this is my
spiritual practice,
and I'd like to make
more money from it.
>>MILLMAN: Right.
And if we can, that's great.
But some people-- it's playing
guitar or doing a sport.
>>LISA: Or singing.
>>MILLMAN: Or singing, or
dancing, or art, or writing.
But if we love doing
it, keep doing it.
And one day, perhaps an
income may be generated.
But meanwhile, my agents--
when I sold my first
book, I remember.
I never forgot what they said.
Don't quit your day job yet.
So we need a day job as well,
so we're not a starving artist.
>>LISA: Did you sell the
first book to a publisher?
Or did you self-publish it?
>>MILLMAN: I sold
to a publisher.
>>LISA: Did?
>>MILLMAN: I didn't
know what an agent was.
They said, you need to
send this to an agent,
so I found somebody.
And they were
willing to read it.
And they took a chance on it.
And it sold and sold modestly.
And I went from there.
But word of mouth is a
wonderful, magical thing
when it happens.
>>LISA: When it's a good book.
Yes, absolutely.
OK, do we get to the third?
Because I found this
article in HuffPost.
And it was about the top 10
things people want in life,
but can't find.
And the top five things
had to do with purpose.
I mean, it's always
been an issue.
It's such an odd term--
purpose.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: And it really, I
think, is up to the individual.
>>MILLMAN: It is.
>>LISA: So what is the third?
>>MILLMAN: Well,
there are thousands
of purposes that appear
to different people
at different times.
But just as we divide
the days of the year
into four seasons and
the points on a compass
into four primary directions,
by looking at our life
through learning life's lessons,
through career and calling.
And the third purpose is
finding our life path.
It's like a hidden calling.
Most people are not clear.
They're stumbling in the dark,
wondering why they're not
feeling on track entirely.
And that's what an unusual
mentor I called the warrior
priest who taught me this system
for helping clarify one's life
path.
So it's another kind of purpose.
And that's what I
feature in "The Life
You Were Born to Live."
>>LISA: So it's a bigger
overarching theme in your life?
>>MILLMAN: It is.
It's a bigger theme.
It's what we learn
through relationships,
and through our work,
and through daily life.
We start to clarify.
Am I here to express myself?
Am I here to use
my creative energy?
Am I here to learn
to trust myself?
Different people have more acute
points in these various areas.
And there are 45
different life paths--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MILLMAN: --for people born
since 1750 to the present day.
And so the book covers them all.
>>LISA: And what
about after 2000s?
>>MILLMAN: Well, there are some
individuals born after 2000
who have a single-digit
birth number.
And I explained in the new
edition of the book, which
came out recently,
why that's important,
and what master numbers
really mean, and so on.
And again, people say,
but explain it to me.
Scientifically, I can't.
But I do know it's accurate.
>>LISA: Accurate.
Yes.
>>MILLMAN: And
it's a useful tool
for understanding ourselves.
>>LISA: It always is.
It's a personality
test, essentially,
is when you look at
mine, is the life path 8.
And in various systems--
you could look at it
in various systems.
It all says the same thing.
It talks about having--
being goal oriented,
and having a mission in
life, and really moving
towards that mission.
Even if you look at my
birth sign, Capricorn,
it's climbing the mountain
to get to the mission,
that it's interesting.
So it does give you
a way of defining
your path a little bit more.
It's a guide.
>>MILLMAN: I'd like to think
of it as a foundation for life.
Once you understand
that, anything you--
whether it's dealing
with finances,
health, relationships.
And it's all covered in
the book-- those aspects.
You start to
understand how better
to approach those things.
I mean, the reading-- this
warrior priest did for me when
I was first exposed to this.
I said, are you a psychic?
He said, no, but I've been
trained to know where to look.
And that's what I
share with people.
Many people say, Dan, I wish
I had a mentor like Socrates.
And I go, you do.
That's why I wrote the book.
And we all find who we need
at the time we need it.
>>LISA: Yes.
And you can also look up other
people's life path numbers
and see how you relate to
them-- family members, friends.
>>MILLMAN: There's
even an app for--
>>LISA: Oh, cool.
>>MILLMAN: --iPhones
or Android phones.
And it has much of the
material in the book as an app.
So it's on your phone.
It's handy all the time.
>>LISA: That's really great.
And by the way, it's free, too.
You could look up at--
>>MILLMAN: Oh, yeah.
If you go to
peacefulwarrior.com,
that's the easiest thing.
You'll see Life
Purpose Calculator.
Click on that.
Put in your date of birth.
And it's right there--
some information--
your birth number and some
keywords in your life.
And of course, there's
much more in the book.
But it gives you
a flavor, a taste.
>>LISA: Did yours say gymnast?
>>MILLMAN: No, nothing
that's specific.
In fact, if you take
the Olympic team,
they're all different
life patterns.
>>LISA: Really?
>>MILLMAN: But they
approach it differently.
They each have their own
weaknesses and strengths.
I wish I had known this system
when I was a coach at Stanford.
>>LISA: Wow.
And also, what about
being a gymnast
and knowing this about
yourself and an athlete?
>>MILLMAN: Athletes learn
universal or spiritual laws
through their training.
It becomes embodied in
their cells in their body.
But they don't know it, because
they're so focused on scores,
and winning, and losing.
And they miss the bigger
picture of what they're actually
gaining.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>MILLMAN: Yeah, athletes
learn a lot, as you know.
>>LISA: I used to be
a competitive cyclist.
And I enjoy so much
more, just riding,
and enjoying nature, and what
it shows you and my thought
process.
Well, I'm not going
for any type of time.
I'm going for the experience
and also, the community, too.
It's really cool when you get
with a group of people that
are all doing the same thing--
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: --in terms
of athletics--
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: --raising your
dopamine together.
And you're having
great conversations.
And it's a community
builder There's so much more
than comes with just the score.
>>MILLMAN: It really is.
>>LISA: I agree.
>>MILLMAN: And that's true
for musicians or anybody
who practices anything.
They can learn about
life through that art.
>>LISA: Yes.
We're going to take a look
here at you actually doing some
of this work on the trampoline.
Take a look here.
>> Although I enjoy
many forms of exercise,
the Peaceful Warrior Workout
has been the core of my daily
routine for the last decade.
I'm a grandfather now,
almost 50 years old.
But this routine has helped
me look and feel younger
than my chronological age.
By watching this video, you have
already taken an important step
toward greater energy
and well-being,
now by investing four
minutes a day in yourself.
>>LISA: That's it.
Four minutes a day in yourself.
Now, what do you do when you
invest four minutes a day
in yourself?
>>MILLMAN: Well--
>>LISA: Four minutes?
>>MILLMAN: --I recognize--
I try to be realistic
and practical,
rather than just conceptual.
And I wanted to develop
a workout that's
almost excuse proof you can do.
And this was developed.
That was 23 years ago.
>>LISA: You can do a
workout in four minutes?
>>MILLMAN: Four minutes.
It's designed and complete in
less than four minutes a day.
And it gets every
part of the body.
It's deep breathing.
That's the key to it, but also
moving every part of the body.
So I've been doing this
every day for the last--
I guess about 30
years every day.
It's the core of what I do.
And I do more than
that, but that's
what I do every day on
the road anywhere I go.
And it's based on the idea
that a little of something
is better than a lot of nothing.
It's a great way
to start the day.
>>LISA: I was going to say.
>>MILLMAN: I also developed a
4-Minute Meditation, which I
also teach through my website.
Yeah.
>>LISA: Can you show us a little
about the 4-Minute Workout?
Do you mind?
>>MILLMAN: Sure.
Be happy to.
Should I stand up
here and do it?
>>LISA: Awesome.
I don't know if we can
do the standing part.
Can you do it sitting?
>>MILLMAN: Probably not.
It's designed-- I mean,
there are some movements
you could do.
But the first one is
the stretch back--
a profound, deep
stretch back and then a
swing down, where you actually
are standing up with your legs
straight.
And you do a momentary stretch.
This one is a
squat-down side stretch
where you fill the lungs
up and stretch sideways.
Then we work down the body with
a neck release and shoulder
rolls to open up tension here.
And then a spine swing for the
lower spine abdominals and then
something called Elvis Pelvis
for the deep pelvic muscles.
And then one called
Heaven and Earth
where you stretch up and
down, balancing on one leg
momentarily.
That gives you an idea about it.
And there's others more
for cardiovascular.
But it's a workout
anyone can do.
It's like a suit of clothing.
You tailor it for yourself.
>>LISA: And where
do you find that?
Where's the workout?
>>MILLMAN: People can go to
peacefulwarrior.com and look
for my online courses,
and it's all there.
>>LISA: That is so cool.
>>MILLMAN: And it can be done.
It's not an expensive course.
So it's accessible to
anyone, pretty much.
>>LISA: I mean,
when anyone asks me,
what is your secret
or your trick
to living a fulfilled life?
It's always movement.
Movement does so much for
the body, and the brain--
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: --and possibilities.
And if you don't have
the means to move,
like maybe you have an
injury, you can do a lot of it
from a chair--
>>MILLMAN: Sure.
>>LISA: --as long as you
get the blood circulating.
It's a huge piece.
>>MILLMAN: It's a
little bit of something,
and that's important
for anybody.
I recommend that people
dream big, but start small
and then connect the dots.
>>LISA: And start somewhere.
Because it can be overwhelming
to get into an exercise
routine.
Yes.
>>MILLMAN: Sure.
Sure.
>>LISA: But you've got
to start somewhere.
>>MILLMAN: Starting small.
>>LISA: Yes.
So there's a great picture
here of you on a unicycle.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: I love this picture.
And you do a lot of
different things.
What is that like
to ride a unicycle?
>>MILLMAN: For my
60th birthday, I
wanted to do something special.
That was what?
13 years ago.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MILLMAN: And so I decided
to learn to ride a unicycle.
A friend of mine loaned me his.
I went to a tennis court.
And long story short,
it took me three weeks,
a very discouraging practice.
If anybody has tried to ride
one, it feels impossible.
I felt like a klutz.
After one week, a
little bit of progress.
Two weeks-- a little bit more.
But then it clicked.
And by the third week, I
was doing figure eights
around the courts.
And the reason I mention
this is because I
learned two things from that.
One is everything is difficult
until it becomes easy.
>>LISA: True.
>>MILLMAN: So people hit
something, and it's difficult.
And they go, oh,
this isn't for me.
I can't do this.
But just persist through it.
That's what I did.
I came back every day
and kept doing it.
And then something happened.
But the second thing--
there are days in
a relationship,
learning to ride a unicycle, in
other fields of endeavor where
everything seems to fall
apart, where you're worse
than you were days before.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: But
those are the days
where it's going from the
front brain to the back brain.
Those are the days where
it's becoming automatic.
And it is-- the whole body is
confused-- the mind, the body.
But usually, that's when
the learning is happening.
And there's often a
breakthrough the next day.
So in a relationship crisis,
if you persist through it,
you can often break through
to new levels of intimacy
the same way you can
learning to ride a unicycle.
>>LISA: So stick with something.
Maybe even try
something that you
don't know you're going to be
good at, like maybe juggling.
>>MILLMAN: Sure.
>>LISA: And just stick
with it as a hobby
until you can
actually master it.
>>MILLMAN: We're not supposed--
>>LISA: Not master it.
>>MILLMAN: --to be
confident at the start.
We're not supposed
to be confident.
Competence breeds confidence.
But if we keep
practicing anything,
you develop a certain expertise.
That's the secret
if there is one,
is keep doing it over time.
We get better.
And then we start to
feel the confidence.
>>LISA: And doesn't
the brain love newness?
Creates all that dopamine?
>>MILLMAN: It does.
Absolutely.
>>LISA: Loves new things.
>>MILLMAN: And every day is new.
I taught a thousand seat
drops on the trampoline--
just seat drops.
But I never taught the
same one, because each one
is a different person,
different circumstance.
We think-- most people--
maybe they're bored,
or they're
traumatized, or bored.
They try something.
I can't do this.
I can't do it.
Then they do it right once,
and they go, OK, now I'm bored.
Let's move on.
[LAUGHTER]
But we never do the
same thing twice.
It's always-- I'm still refining
the Peaceable Warrior Workout.
After 30 years, I'm getting
a little bit better.
Small points.
So I once asked Socrates what
his secret of living was.
And he said, Dan, you
practice gymnastics.
I practice everything.
And the idea of practicing
everything we do-- breathing,
walking, standing--
brings us into that
flow, that absorption.
We're not just doing the dishes.
We're practicing the dishes.
We're not just
doing the laundry.
We're folding it more
neatly than we did.
We're practicing our signature.
And by doing that, it
brings us into this--
really this state of absorption
in the present moment.
It becomes very zen-like.
>>LISA: I was just going to say
it's just like a zen master.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Is that how
you live your life?
>>MILLMAN: Well, that's
what I strive to do--
>>LISA: Yeah, of course.
>>MILLMAN: --like anybody.
I have moments.
Life is a series of moments.
But, yes, that-- someone
once said, have you
mastered everything you
write about in your books?
The answer is no, I haven't.
But I'm sincerely practicing.
>>LISA: Well, there's the
book, "The Hidden School--"
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: --basically
talking about life
is your hidden school, right?
>>MILLMAN: Right--
for all of us.
>>LISA: Tell me a little
bit more about that book.
>>MILLMAN: Well, in that
book, I build the foundation
beneath the foundation.
It's more of an
advanced teaching.
But I took great care
in writing it clearly.
Andr Gide once said, everything
that needs to be said has
already been said.
But it needs to be said again,
because no one was really
paying attention.
>>LISA: Or in a different way.
>>MILLMAN: In a different way.
And in this way, I
help people reconcile
truths that happen at
the conventional level
like we're separate selves.
At the conventional level
of life, if I stub my toe,
it doesn't hurt you, unless
you're highly empathic.
So we're separate at
the conventional level.
But at the transcendental
level, that thing
we strive for through religion
and spiritual practice--
we are all one.
And it helps reconcile
these apparent paradoxes
that sound opposite.
Death is real, yet
death is an illusion.
Time is real and yet,
there is no time.
We always live in the eternal
present, the eternal present,
the eternal present.
So how can those both be true?
Well, they are.
But it depends on what
level we're coming from--
the conventional--
living our daily
life or those moments
we can step to the mountain top
and look from the big picture.
And we see a different
level of truth, which
brings great peace and relief.
>>LISA: How long after
"Peaceful Warrior"
did you write "Hidden School?"
>>MILLMAN: About 37 years.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MILLMAN: I wasn't ready
to write it until recently.
>>LISA: And you really wanted
to bring in the depth of what
you'd learned.
>>MILLMAN: Right.
It's actually an
adventure story.
But through-- near
the end of the story,
that's when these
revelations come.
>>LISA: Let's take a look here
at the video of "The Hidden
School."
>>MILLMAN: On the subway
and here in New York City,
I did a 4-Minute Meditation,
which I do introduce
in "The Hidden School."
And it reminds me
what's important in life
and helps me to appreciate
each day and each moment.
We can get taken in and absorbed
by the duties of daily life.
Once in a while, it's
good to step back as if
going from down in the
weeds, up to a mountain top.
Because everything looks
better in a panorama
from the distance.
So these explorations remind
us of life's bigger picture,
what we're really doing
here and here to do.
There's a term in
Japan called satori
when the mind, and the goals,
and the body, and the emotions
are all aligned.
And there's a power in that.
Because often, we do one
thing and think another.
Many of us have
heard that saying.
When the student is ready,
the teacher appears.
However, many
misunderstand that saying.
What it actually means
is when the student is
ready or really
paying attention,
the teacher appears everywhere.
I learned a profound
lesson one day,
watching a cloud ride the wind.
And I had so much to do.
My breath was shallow.
I felt pressured.
And I happened to
look out the window.
And I saw a cloud not
trying to race the wind,
but just floating along
with the pace of the wind.
In that moment, I
took a deep breath.
I calmed down.
And I did everything I
needed to do that afternoon,
but quiet in a natural
pace like that cloud.
That question of why people
may benefit from a deeper
philosophical or spiritual
exploration is a profound one
and I think important
for all of us
to consider, at least
in moments of our lives.
>>LISA: I learn so
much from clouds.
I do.
>>MILLMAN: And trees
bending in the wind
and streams flowing downhill.
>>LISA: Absolute.
I just did a video
of that this morning.
>>MILLMAN: Did you?
>>LISA: Yes.
If we could just
be like the stream
and go over the rocks, and
downstream, and flow like it
does.
It never thinks about,
oh, there's a rock.
I can't flow.
The rest of the
stream is still going.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Yeah, it's interesting.
Do you recommend that
we go on a pilgrimage
or vacate our lives in order to
really, truly find ourselves?
>>MILLMAN: I think one of the
deeper truths that I found,
Lisa, is that we're
all on a pilgrimage.
Whether it's conscious
or not, we're
all on a spiritual quest in
this school of daily life.
We don't have to be elsewhere.
>>LISA: So we don't?
>>MILLMAN: No.
No.
I mean, some people
like retreats.
That can be appropriate
or to take--
>>LISA: But then--
>>MILLMAN: --some time.
>>LISA: --you slam
back into your life.
>>MILLMAN: Back
into everyday life.
This is where we live.
So that's where the arena of
the peaceful warrior lies.
>>LISA: And the hidden school.
>>MILLMAN: And
the hidden school.
And it's waiting--
>>LISA: The hidden school is--
>>MILLMAN: --for us.
>>LISA: --right here.
>>MILLMAN: Right
here, right now.
>>LISA: You said
it's an adventure.
Tell me a little bit about that.
>>MILLMAN: Well, many people
undersell their own life.
They say, oh, Dan wrote
a book about his life.
It's so exciting.
What about mine?
But I emphasized always
that each of our stories
is our treasure.
Because there's not a
single story on the planet
exactly like yours, or mine,
or any of your viewers.
We're all unique.
And so we need to
value those stories.
Because we've all shown heroism
and courage in those stories.
We've all overcome adversity.
So that's why I say
it's an adventure.
It doesn't have to be
some movie we're watching.
It's happening to us right
now, but we sometimes
fail to appreciate it.
>>LISA: Do you know-- what
is your life purpose number?
>>MILLMAN: It's a 268.
>>LISA: OK.
And what did that show
you about yourself?
>>MILLMAN: Well, the 2
really is about wanting
to help and support people.
It's a need to help people--
>>LISA: And natural coach.
>>MILLMAN: --so wanting
to teach or coach.
One day I realized
that no matter how much
I improved myself, only
one person benefited.
But if I could somehow
reach out to other people--
so it went from gymnastics
into the arena of daily life,
as I said.
And the six high standards.
We can sometimes
beat ourselves up,
because we never achieved
what we thought or envisioned.
That castle in our mind
becomes a garden shed,
and we have to do renovations.
So that's the
perfectionist part.
And that's the 6, really, but
the vision of what's possible.
And the 8-- as you
indicated, it's
a drive to influence
people, to make
a difference, and a drive for
recognition in some sense, too.
That's part of it.
To learn our own power.
That's a big one, too, to really
own that in a quiet, real way.
So there are various
nuances of each number.
And I think Pythagoras was
the first to really ask,
do numbers have meaning?
What are the
archetypes of numbers?
And so--
>>LISA: That's cool.
>>MILLMAN: --that's probably
the source of this--
ultimately of what I teach
in these various books
and in some of my--
>>LISA: That's true.
>>MILLMAN: --workshops.
>>LISA: Numbers are--
they do have archetypes.
That's a really great
way of looking at it.
>>MILLMAN: Life is vibration.
>>LISA: But are there
shadow sides to that?
So there's the perfectionism,
which can have a shadow side.
But what's the antidote
to perfectionism?
>>MILLMAN: One of the most
important parts of the book
are spiritual or universal
laws that I put in the book
to help overcome the hurdles.
Because every life
path has hurdles in it
as well as strengths.
In fact, I have a
section-- one paragraph
on what each life
path looks like when
it's being worked
in the positive
and what it looks like
when it's being worked more
in the negative.
>>LISA: I like that.
>>MILLMAN: That's why two
people on the same life path--
their lives may
look very different.
Because one's-- it's
in a more mature,
developed way and
the other less so.
So these laws-- the law of
honesty, the law of process,
for example.
I know that sounds very general.
But when people look in
the book or on the app,
they can see specifically
how it relates
to their life and the issues
they're going through.
>>LISA: Would you say that
this is something that's
a tool that people
really could use
to further their path in
life or their relationships
with other people?
>>MILLMAN: Absolutely.
In fact, if somebody goes
to peacefulwarrior,com,
they don't just put in
their date of birth.
They can put in a
second date of birth
and a significant other,
a spouse, a friend.
And they see the
dynamic between them.
>>LISA: Oh, that's great.
>>MILLMAN: It's all for free.
It's right there at the website.
>>LISA: How did
you develop that?
That is cool.
>>MILLMAN: Well,
that was part of what
I learned from this mentor, and
I developed it over the years.
I only had 20 pages of notes.
And it developed into
a fairly big book.
After years of
working with people,
and doing readings, and
working with the system,
new insights came.
>>LISA: I think that's
a great story, also,
of recreating yourself.
You really did.
You took something that
meant so much to you
and made such an impact.
But 25 years later,
what do I do with this?
And where does it take me?
And I'm sure you've
been asked questions.
Well, why did you turn
into numerology after this?
>>MILLMAN: Right.
It's like it was a
risky book to write.
Because I can't--
I don't have any solid
scientific foundation.
So here's evidence based.
We can tell you the
studies that were done.
>>LISA: You're not
a numerologist.
>>MILLMAN: No, I'm not.
I was never very
interested in numerology.
Some of the books I looked
at seemed vague and abstract.
Maybe 40% accurate.
But this book hits
people over the head in--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: --the work
I did, putting into it.
Jack London said it takes hard
writing to make easy reading.
>>LISA: Yes, you have
to put a lot into it.
>>MILLMAN: I put
it in the writing.
>>LISA: But what's
the theme here?
With all of your work
and with this show
is about that word purpose.
>>MILLMAN: Right.
Well, yeah.
>>LISA: It's such a thing.
>>MILLMAN: People who--
functioning well in life
doesn't sound too
sexy or spiritual.
But those who do
get things done tend
to be-- have a baseline
of more satisfaction
and fulfillment in
life than people
who don't get things done.
So part of my work is practical.
It helps people to take
action in their life.
That's another thing,
rather than necessarily
trying to fix our
insides, so we can
have just the right,
positive thoughts
and feel just the right
emotions, rather than that--
for example, I say
to people, I don't
recommend that you feel
grateful, or happy,
or peaceful, or kind, or loving.
I recommend you
bring that into life.
Behave that way.
Behave with gratitude.
Say thank you to people.
>>LISA: Don't just feel it.
>>MILLMAN: It's because we
have less control over what
feelings come to pass.
How many of us have received a
gift and we didn't necessarily
feel grateful?
So we--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: --have less
control over what feelings
pass through us like the weather
than we do-- what we actually
do moment to moment.
So this way of action is
another fundamental element
of this approach to living.
And I help people to
take practical action,
small steps that can make
a very big difference.
>>LISA: It's so interesting.
Because your work is you
didn't do this to create
a brand like people can do.
And I want to
create a brand of--
you're shaking your
head like, heck no.
>>MILLMAN: All I know is I
say it was not strategic.
If it were, I'd say that.
Yes, I formed a clear strategy.
But, no, I just opened my
heart, opened my mouth.
And that's how I
write and speak.
>>LISA: But it's cool because
it created its own brand.
Peaceful Warrior created it.
>>MILLMAN: Yeah, now
it's become that.
Right.
>>LISA: It did.
And would you say
that it's a brand that
identifies with people finding
their path, finding their--
yeah, I read that.
And it's a community that
it creates amongst people.
>>MILLMAN: I think there's
something about the term.
For 30 years, the
seminars I've taught,
workshops wherever
I teach, about 50%
of the people in the audience
are male and about 50 female.
But the point is
there's a balance there.
Because everybody
I know is striving
to live with a peaceful heart,
but recognizes there are
times we need a warrior spirit.
>>LISA: Yeah, well sometimes
I'm too much warrior.
Sometimes I really
use too much will
to get something to happen.
And it comes with an edge.
It comes at a little
bit of an edge--
a lot of it.
>>MILLMAN: There's a game we
play in some of my workshops.
>>LISA: Oh, good.
>>MILLMAN: We do a
hand-clapping game.
And we learn to assert
ourselves in the right moments,
but also--
>>LISA: Can we do it?
>>MILLMAN: Well, we could.
I mean, yeah, we can
try it sitting down.
The idea is to see if
you can get your partner
a little off balance.
And so if I'm
tense, for example,
you do a really assertive push.
>>LISA: First, towards you.
>>MILLMAN: Then I
can get off balance.
OK, but if I also
know how to receive,
and take in, and relax.
Then if you push, there's
nothing to push against.
It's like push hands in tai chi,
but it's a very accessible way.
So you learn there are times
in life to assert yourself.
And there are other times
to receive, and listen,
and open up.
So it helps us
balance our character.
Rather than being the
good girl or the nice boy
all the time, there are times
we want to really be forthright.
But other times-- sit,
and listen, and take in.
So we have trouble
with one or the other.
And this brings us
back into balance.
One of the first laws in my
book, the laws of spirit,
is about the law of balance,
not overdoing or underdoing.
It's a constant challenge.
When I go to the Y to work
out, how hard do I push?
Do I push so hard that
I get great results,
but I wake up in the morning
going, oh, here comes workout?
Or how do I find the balance
where I can enjoy it, but also
get some results?
So balance in every
aspect of life
is a quality we can
all benefit from.
>>LISA: That's a tough one.
Because I've heard there is
no such thing as balance.
You're really never right
on the balance beam.
You're usually on
either side of it.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
Gymnasts-- first, they
begin, and they fall off.
But as they get better,
they get more refined.
And they have a little bobble.
So there's nothing like
perfect balance, because moment
to moment.
And there's no such thing
as balanced exercises.
What is balanced
exercise for an Olympian
may be different from somebody
who's a beginner or just
rehabilitating.
So we all have to find
our own balance of what
works for us day to day.
>>LISA: Well, this is
a good-- great example
of on and off balance.
We're going to take
a look here at Dan
showing another example from
the book, "The Hidden School."
Take a look.
>>MILLMAN: Not long after
I met my old mentor, who
I named Socrates, he
gave me a business card
with three words--
paradox, humor, and change.
These words, these ideas
appear again and again
in "The Hidden School."
In reading the saga,
reading the adventure,
there are many
humorous incidents
that happened that remind
us cosmic sense of humor
can be very, very useful in
approaching the challenges
of everyday life.
And change-- well, I
have radical changes
demanded of me by
page 2 in the new book
and throughout the book.
Not predictable,
but change happens.
But I think the most important
point in "The Hidden School"
revolves around paradox.
Paradox, the reader
will learn, is
a key to understanding some
of the major questions of life
about big issues like free
will, and time, and death,
and whether we're all one or
whether we're separate beings.
So understanding paradox is
a key and a recurring theme
throughout "The Hidden School."
This approach to
living is not so
much about fixing our insides,
so that we can go out and live.
It's not about having
perfect, positive thoughts
or an entirely quiet mind.
It's not about having
the right emotions,
so we can go out and live well.
Rather, it focuses on action,
our response to each moment.
Because most of us
looking back will
see that our lives
have been shaped
by what we have done
moment to moment,
not just what we've been
thinking or feeling.
>>LISA: Humor-- how
important it is.
I mean, it is just
because we have
to be able to not take
ourselves too seriously.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: It really
gets in the way.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
And by humor, it's not just
about laughing or telling
jokes.
That's wonderful.
It's a tension release.
But it's more about a
non-serious approach,
not taking ourselves
so seriously.
This character Dan Millman
has a lot of quirks,
and he's just doing
his best in life.
So I don't take myself
so seriously anymore.
I take my work
seriously, I guess.
So it's more of a
cosmic sense of humor.
I remember a cartoon.
And it showed two men
up on a dungeon wall--
long beards.
They're shackled by
their arms and legs.
And one turns to
the other and says,
psst, now, here's my plan.
I mean, that's human
spirit, isn't it?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLMAN: That's
the human spirit.
Now, here's my plan.
>>LISA: Well, you
have grandchildren.
And you can't really
but laugh and giggle
when you're around them, right?
>>MILLMAN: They're
great teachers.
We all know children
can be great teachers.
>>LISA: Young, too.
Yes.
Well, now, if you were to
look back and find out,
what is the massive
purpose here?
What is your biggest why as
to the reason that you've
written all these books
and everything that you're
teaching?
Why do you do this?
>>MILLMAN: I can
say with confidence
I haven't the faintest idea.
[LAUGHTER]
Life remains a
mystery to me, Lisa.
It really does.
>>LISA: That's the first
time I've heard that.
[LAUGHTER]
I love it.
People usually come
with this deep,
meaningful-- you're
like, no clue.
>>MILLMAN: No, it's a mystery.
I just do what I do.
I believe we're hardwired
to be who we are.
And so I'm just continuing
along that path,
trusting along the way.
>>LISA: So then, how do
you know what's next?
>>MILLMAN: It'll appear.
And then I respond to it.
It may appear inside.
It may be a movement in me.
But I just wait, and watch,
and stay open to opportunities
as they occur.
>>LISA: But you do also have
a goal in mind, don't you?
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
Yes.
But only-- maybe it's become
more short-term goals.
What in the moment can I do?
What is my purpose now?
When I walk out of here, when
I do something to meet friends
tonight, I'll have
a different purpose.
But overall, I seem to
have found a particular joy
in sharing in my own way.
Other people, also,
are called to do that.
And I encourage them.
My daughter and I wrote
a writing book together
called "The Creative
Compass," where
we encourage people to follow
their own creative impulses
in writing.
So it's really not so
much about me anymore.
It's about, what can I
do to touch other lives?
>>LISA: Do you ever
wonder about retirement?
Or what's your plan
for the future?
I mean, does that
ever cross your mind?
>>MILLMAN: Not really.
>>LISA: Really?
>>MILLMAN: No.
Some people that works for.
But you know the saying.
It's been repeated many times.
If you want to make God
laugh, tell God your plans.
>>LISA: Yeah, that's true.
>>MILLMAN: Plans change.
So I find short-term goals
are more realistic, usually
by definition than
making a long-term goal.
But again, any
goal can be useful,
because it gives us a direction.
And I think that's
always useful.
>>LISA: Well, your
short-term goal of health
is working for you.
>>MILLMAN: Yeah.
Yeah.
But I'll grow old, too.
And we're like old cars.
You need tune-ups now and then.
And everybody has
their own challenges.
>>LISA: I mean, I love--
can you tell us about your
daily exercise routine
now, still at 73?
>>MILLMAN: Well, I start
early in the morning.
As soon as I get up,
I do various exercises
that I've learned--
my Peaceful Warrior Workout,
but also, some of them
look like physical therapy
to help different liabilities
I've developed from all the
pounding I did in gymnastics.
And, yeah, I found some friends
at the Y. I go to a gym,
and we work out a little bit.
But everything can be done
at home on one's carpet
using body weight.
It's a great, very
natural way to exercise.
But when someone says, I want
to be fit, you have to ask,
fit for what?
Do you want to run a triathlon?
Or do you want to be
able to walk upstairs
without getting winded?
So it's an individual choice
of what kind-- what we do,
and what fits our body, and
our mind, and our emotions,
and what we can sustain.
No matter how fit we
get in a boot camp--
unless you sustain that level,
you don't stay that fit.
So it's, what simple things
can we do day to day?
That's why I like
short-term, minimal things
we get done every day.
And we start the day right.
>>LISA: And also, community.
You mentioned that.
You mentioned meeting people and
doing community-like exercise.
>>MILLMAN: Well, in the
spiritual traditions,
there is the Buddha
or the teacher.
And we all have
different teachers.
There is the teaching--
the Dharma, and then the
Sangha, or the community.
And so it's very useful.
We've all read about
how people tend
to live longer if they have
connections with family,
with friends.
So to develop those--
it's not easy.
New York City-- we moved
there five years ago--
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>MILLMAN: --to Brooklyn,
New York to find people.
So it's great,
taking up a subject,
something where you meet other
people with common interests.
It can be very healing.
>>LISA: Why New York?
>>MILLMAN: Oh, I had four
reasons-- two daughters
and two grandbabies.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
Those are good reasons.
So you went closer
to the family,
and you got to participate.
>>MILLMAN: That's our
center of gravity.
>>LISA: Keeping up
with grandchildren
will definitely keep you young.
>>MILLMAN: Yes.
Yes.
>>LISA: That's a lot of fun.
>>MILLMAN: Yes, it is.
>>LISA: Well, thank you
so much for being here
and sharing your wisdom with us.
And we look forward to whatever
it is that you bring us next.
>>MILLMAN: It's a delight.
>>LISA: It's a total delight.
>>MILLMAN: Thanks for inviting--
>>LISA: Thank you.
>>MILLMAN: --me.
Sure.
>>LISA: And for talking about
purpose and really bringing
that home for us--
I appreciate it.
>>MILLMAN: Terrific.
>>LISA: And thank you so much
for joining me in this show.
And your energy
makes these shows
happen whenever you watch them.
So thanks for sticking
with me to the end.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And if you'd like to watch
more inspirational shows,
you can go to
"Inspirations" on Gaia.
Until next time, I
invite you to stay aware.
[MUSIC PLAYING]